Cats have contributed to the extinction of 33 different species.
Statistics indicate that animal lovers in recent years have shown a preference for cats over dogs!
Siamese kittens are born white because of the heat inside the mother's uterus before birth. This heat keeps the kittens' hair from darkening on the points.
In ancient Egypt, killing a cat was a crime punishable by death.
When cats grimace, they are usually "taste-scenting." They have an extra organ that, with some breathing control, allows the cats to taste-sense the air.
Cats that live together sometimes rub each others heads to show that they have no intention of fighting. Young cats do this more often, especially when they are excited.
Julius Ceasar, Henri II, Charles XI, and Napoleon were all afraid of cats.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
Baking chocolate is the most dangerous chocolate to your cat.
Cats do not think that they are little people. They think that we are big cats. This influences their behavior in many ways.
Cat families usually play best in even numbers. Cats and kittens should be aquired in pairs whenever possible.
Evidence suggests domesticated cats have been around since 3600 B.C., 2,000 years before Egypts pharaohs.
The way you treat kittens in the early stages of it's life will render it's personality traits later in life.
The word 'cat' in various languages: French: chat; German: katze; Italian: gatto; Spanish/Portugese: gato; Yiddish: kats; Maltese: qattus; Swedish/Norwegian: katt; Dutch: kat; Icelandic: kottur; Greek: catta; Hindu: katas; Japanese:neko; Polish: kot; Ukranian: kotuk; Hawiian: popoki; Russian: koshka; Latin: cattus; Egyptian: mau; Turkish: kedi; Armenian: Gatz; Chinese: mao; Arabic: biss; Indonesian: kucing; Bulgarian: kotka; Malay: kucing; Thai/Vietnamese: meo; Romanian: pisica; Lithuanian: katinas; Czech: kocka; Slovak: macka; Armenian: gatz; Basque: catua; Estonian: kass; Finnish: kissa; Swahili: paka.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their talk horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
You check your cats pulse on the inside of the back thigh, where the leg joins to the body. Normal for cats: 110-170 beats per minute.
Many people fear catching a protozoan disease, Toxoplasmosis, from cats. This disease can cause illness in the human, but more seriously, can cause birth defects in the unborn. Toxoplasmosis is a common disease, sometimes spread through the feces of cats. It is caused most often from eating raw or rare beef. Pregnant women and people with a depressed immune system should not touch the cat litter box. Other than that, there is no reason that these people have to avoid cats.
Cats have individual preferences for scratching surfaces and angles. Some are horizontal scratchers while others exercise their claws vertically.
Tabby cats are thought to get their name from Attab, a district in Baghdad, now the capital of Iraq.
In ancient Egypt, when a family cat died, all family members would shave their eyebrows as a sign of mourning.
A cats purr may be a form of self-healing, as it can be a sign of nervousness as well as contentment. Similarly, the frequency of a domestic cats purr is the same at which muscles and bones repair themselves.
The catnip plant contains an oil called hepetalactone which does for cats what marijuana does to some people. Not all cats react to it those that do appear to enter a trancelike state. A positive reaction takes the form of the cat sniffing the catnip, then licking, biting, chewing it, rub & rolling on it repeatedly, purring, meowing & even leaping in the air.
A cat has ran for mayor of Mexico City in 2013.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
There are cats who have survived falls from over 32 stories (320 meters) onto concrete.
Cats sleep 70% of their lives.
Besides smelling with their nose, cats can smell with an additional organ called the Jacobson's organ, located in the upper surface of the mouth.
Cats must have fat in their diet because they cannot produce it on their own.
Neutering a cat extends its life span by two or three years.
Cats have over 20 muscles that control their ears.
A group of cats is called a clowder.
Cats are the most popular pet in the United States: There are 88 million pet cats and 74 million dogs.
A cat has been mayor of Talkeetna, Alaska, for 15 years. His name is Stubbs.
Cats can be taught to walk on a leash, but a lot of time and patience is required to teach them. The younger the cat is, the easier it will be for them to learn.
Cats are often lactose intolerant, so stop givin them milk!
A cat's whiskers are thought to be a kind of radar, which helps a cat gauge the space it intends to walk through.
Cats can not taste sweets.
Purring not always means happiness. Purring could mean a cat is in terrible pain such as during childbirth. Kitten will purr to their mother to let her know they are getting enough milk while nursing. Purring is a process of inhaling and exhaling, usually performed while the mouth is closed. But don't worry, if your cat is purring while your gently petting her and holding her close to you - that is a happy cat!
Cats can jump up to six times their length.
Almost 10% of a cat's bones are in its tail, and the tail is used to maintain balance.
Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
Cats, especially older cats, do get cancer. Many times this disease can be treated successfully.
Cats have been domesticated for half as long as dogs have been.
A form of AIDS exists in cats.
Cats can drink sea water in order to survive.
Studies now show that the allergen in cats is related to their scent glands. Cats have scent glands on their faces and at the base of their tails. Entire male cats generate the most scent. If this secretion from the scent glands is the allergen, allergic people should tolerate spayed female cats the best.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Retractable claws are a physical phenomenon that sets cats apart from the rest of the animal kingdom. In the cat family, only cheetahs cannot retract their claws.
